Welcome, everyone.
In this video we'll be talking
about input and output,
because that's the main way we're going to
be interfacing with all our sensors.
I'll just let Andrew take
it away with the overview
of what we're going to be talking about.
>> So first we will be going
over the four main ones.
And we'll be describing them and
telling you guys what the uses are.
So these four are, GPIO,
I2C, SPI, and UART.
>> Yeah, so the first diagram we
want to show you guys is the pinout.
These are both referring to the same pins,
they're just two different diagrams.
The reason why we have them
both here is that [COUGH] there
are about three different ways
to refer to one single pin.
So for example, if you look on the right
colorful image, you see that Pin 23, it
will show up in gray in the middle,
it's also called GPIO A.
That same Pin 23 is also
referred to as GPIO 36.
As you can see,
on the left one that's slightly darker.
So I'll let you know
when these are important.
So Pin 23, like the grey ones
actual hardware pin numbers,
they are important for lib MRA
because that's how it refers to it.
We'll talk about MRA more later on.
The GPIO 36 is useful when you're
accessing the GPIOs through the Linux
terminal and command line because
that's the numbers it'll be using.
GPIO A is just useful for
on the sensors mezzanine.
It refers to the GPIO using
the letters rather than the numbers.
So it's useful to know how it maps there.
Just keep in mind these two diagrams and
refer back to them all the time
if you need to understand them.
So first let's go through,
let's talk about
small overview again of what
we were talking about is GPIO.
And then, we're going to talk about
I2C and the SPI and then the UART.
GPIO is the green block in the middle, and
the I2C is a little yellow
block on the left side.
And next one will be SPI
in the blue block, and
the UART is the red block on the far left.
You can see there's two other
sections called MPP and PCM.
We're not going to be using those too much
so you don't need to worry about those.
And we're not going to discuss them.
But if you want to know more about them,
feel free to look it up on
your favorite search engine.
>> So the first one is GPIO, and GPIO
stands for General Purpose Input/Output.
There's a reason why it's
called general purpose,
because it doesn't do a ton,
but it does what you need.
So there's no predefined use on the board,
so it's not meant definitively for
that board.
So the user chooses their own purpose,
and it can only write high or
low values, and
it can only read high or low values.
What this means is that if you connect
a light sensor, let's say, right?
It'll only detect whether it has light or
it doesn't have light.
It won't detect how much light there is.
So HIGH can often be set to voltages
such as 1.8, 3.3, and 5 volts.
So it would only be 0 volts or
1.8 volts, or 0 volts and 3.3 volts.
Instead of having four concrete values,
it'll only be zero or one of these.
>> Okay, so even though they are just
digital, one or zero, high or low,
they still have their uses and
it's like powering LEDs to give
you an idea of if it's on or off.
That's for output-wise.
For input-wise, it could also be used for
detecting buttons.
You can even use a rotary angle sensor.
It won't give you in between, but
it will tell you if it's past
the threshold of being on or off.
>> So the next one is I2C, and
I2C actually uses two pins,
the clock and the data.
And if you guys aren't familiar with
clocks and the data itself, the clock
basically tells us when we want to
actually read the data and when we don't.
And the data is the data
that's sending right now.
So this is a little bit more complicated,
like CS/electrical engineering stuff,
so if you guys want to
be more familiar with this kind of stuff,
you guys can look it up on your own.
And then there's also,
the ITC work site master/slave system,
kind of weird name for
it, but that's what it is.
So it has multiple masters and
each master has certain slaves.
So the master basically uses
these slaves to do what it wants.
So there are some uses,
such as writing to an LCD display and
communicating with other I2C sensors.
>> Next one up is SPI which stands for
Serial Peripheral Interface,
and it's different from
ITC because ITC just
requires two pins,
this requires four pins.
It also has a clock, again, for
synchronizing when to send data.
It's got an MISO which stands for
Master Input Slave Output.
Essentially anything the slaves want to
send to the master, the one master goes
through that pin and
the reverse is MOSI and its
Master Output Slave Input, so it just sent
stuff, sent from the master to the slaves.
The fourth pin is the CS pin.
This stands for Chip Select, so
just selects which slave to send it to,
that the master wants to.
Another difference between I2C and
SPI is that SPI is
a single master but
it also has multi-slave.
This helps it be a little bit more faster
so it doesn't have to decide which master
to send it to and
deal with the addressing of that.
>> So
we'll be going over UART which stands for
universal asynchronus
receiver transmitter.
And as you guys saw on the previous
two slides, they both had a clock,
asynchronous means that there's
no clock controlling it.
So, it can be used for
serial communication over a serial port.
So this is important for
when you are using an Arduino,
it can communicate through
the port to the Arduino.
Or if you guys know other things
about serial communication,
you know that you also can connect this
to a computer and use that as well.
And it'll ask for configurable speeds,
meaning that you can control
the baud rate of it.
Usually this will be asked of you to
set when you're using the UART.
It requires four pins, the CTS.
Basically it clears the UART so
that you can send data.
There's a receiver which
takes in the data.
There's the transmitter
which sends the data.
And there's RTS which you send
a request to in order for
the transmitter to send
the data to the receiver.
>> So yeah, we've gone through a lot
of information on these slides so
we just want to make sure you
guys focus on what's important.
One of the takeaways we want you guys to
get from this is that there are a variety
of pins on the DragonBoard.
And they allow us to interface
with it in very different ways.
We can use the GPIO for digital sensors,
I2C for more advanced ones,
UART just for CO communication and
SPI for even faster than I2C.
>> So we provided an introduction to
what each input-output interface does.
We didn't give you complex instructions,
or more detailed explanations for
what they do.
So if you guys want to know more, we
stress you guys to look it up on your own.
I ask you guys,
maybe using this very extensively.
>> So the last thing that we want is to
remember to just choose the right pins for
what you need.
If you have devices that use I2C or
SPI, then you have to use those.
You can use GPIO for
just small general purpose stuff.
And UART's just communicating
with common purpose of those.
Research what you want to do and
what pins you'll need to use.
>> So the last part, since there
is a lot of information we haven't
covered everything about all of these.
Just to be touched on it lightly for
each of them.
We want to stress that we'll provide
some resources in the readings so
that you guys can learn more about it
on your own if you feel the need to.
So [COUGH] we'll see you in later
videos when we actually use all this.
And see you then.